DOCS-159: Refactor PEM server and agent registration (#5409)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pem/8/registering_database_server.mdx

- /pem/latest/pem_admin/02_registering_server/
---

> Before you can manage or monitor a server with PEM, you must register the server with PEM and bind the server to a previously-registered PEM agent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can manage or monitor a database server with PEM, you must register the database server with PEM and bind the database server to a previously registered PEM agent. 
```

> You can bind a server to a remote agent (an agent that resides on a different host). However, if the agent doesn't reside on the same host, it doesn't have access to all of the statistical information about the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can bind a database server to a remote agent (an agent that resides on a different host). However, if the agent resides on a different host, it doesn't have access to all of the statistical information about the instance.
```

## How to register a Postgres server

> There are three methods you can use to register a server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three methods to register a server:
```

> - You can use the pemworker utility to register a server from the command line on the host where the agent you wish to bind is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use the pemworker utility to register a database server from the command line on the host where the agent you wish to bind is located.
```

> - You can use automatic server discovery in the PEM web application to automatically register Postgres servers located on the same host as an agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use automatic server discovery in the PEM web application to automatically register Postgres servers located on the same host as an agent.
```

> - You can manually register a Postgres server by adding all the necessary details in the PEM web application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Manually register a Postgres server by adding all the details in the PEM web application.
```

> All three methods are detailed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Using the pemworker utility to register a server

> You can use the pemworker utility to register a server for monitoring by the PEM server or to unregister a database server. During registration, the pemworker utility binds the new server to the agent that resides on the system from which you invoked the registration command. To register a server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the pemworker utility to register a Postgres server to monitor using the PEM server or to unregister a Postgres server. During registration, the pemworker utility binds the new server to the agent on the system from which you invoked the registration command. To register a server:
```

Author: I know this is 'house style' thing. But to me changing from stating that you _can_ do something to _instructing_ users to do it harms clarity. This page describes three alternative methods to register servers. If it sounds like we are instructing users to do all of them, I think that will cause confusion.

Reviewer: Humm, I see what you mean. If we replace this, "There are three methods you can use to register a server?" with "There are three methods to register a server, use any method to register a server", will it avoid confusion?

Author: If the user keeps that context in their head whilst reading this long document, then maybe. But it's hard to see how this can be taken as anything other than an instruction to use pemworker.

> Use the pemworker utility to register a Postgres server to monitor using the PEM server or to unregister a Postgres server.

| `--config-dir`          | Specifies the directory path of the agent configuration file. The default is `"<pemworker path>/../etc"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Set the environment variable `PEM_SERVER_PASSWORD` to provide the password for the PEM server to allow the pemworker to connect as a PEM admin user.

Set the environment variable `PEM_MONITORED_SERVER_PASSWORD` to provide the password of the database server being registered and monitored by pemagent.

If you don't provide the password, a password authentication error occurs. The PEM server acknowledges that the server was registered properly.

#### Examples

The following example registers a server using only the required parameters. 

> The user `admin01` will be used to connect to the PEM server and the credentials supplied for the `--server-*` parameters will be used to create a connection from the agent to the monitored server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user `admin01` connects to the PEM server, and the credentials supplied for the `--server—*` parameters create a connection from the agent to the monitored server.
```

Author: I get (again) that this is house style. But collapsing this into the present tense make it feel vague to me. The future tense implies '_when_ the user presses enter on this command something _will_ happen'. The present tense makes it ambiguous whether we are defining what `admin01` is, how `admin01` is typically used, or how it _will_ be used in this concrete case.

> The same details will also be used to populate the server connection details in the PEM web application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact details are used to populate the server connection details in the PEM web application.
```

| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--pem-user`            | Specifies the name of the PEM administrative user. Required.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | `--server-addr`         | Specifies the IP address of the server host or the fully qualified domain name. On Unix-based systems, you can leave the address field blank to use the default PostgreSQL Unix Domain Socket on the local machine. Or you can set it to an alternate path containing a PostgreSQL socket. If you enter a path, the path must begin with a forward slash (/). Required.                                                                                                                             |

Author: Looks like I somehow failed to replicate the changes I made in v9 to here.

| `--efm-cluster-name`    | Specifies the name of the Failover Manager cluster that monitors the server (if applicable). Optional.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--efm-install-path`    | Specifies the complete path to the installation directory of Failover Manage, if applicable. Optional.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | `--asb-host-name`       | Specifies the name of the host to which the agent is connecting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Author: Again, changes from v9 seem to have gone missing.

!!! Note Connections from the agent to the monitored server
During agent registration, you are required to provide connection details for the agent to connect to the monitored server. As is normal for Postgres, you must specify the database to connect to. 
However, the PEM Agent will monitor **every database accessible to the specified user**, not just the database specified.

After registration, the agent opens a connection to the specified database. It uses this connection to determine which other databases it can connect to with the same user and then spawns one connection to each. 
!!!

## Using the pemworker utility to register a server

You can use the pemworker utility to register a Postgres server. During registration, the pemworker utility binds the new server to the agent that resides on the system from which you invoked the registration command. To register a server:

On a Linux host, use the command:

 `pemworker --register-server`

On a Windows host, use the command:

 `pemworker.exe REGISTER-SERVER`

Append command line options to the command string when invoking the pemworker utility. Follow each option with a corresponding value.

> | Option&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Author: I did this hack on the advice of the docs team. Without it, the options get broken up over many lines in a horrible way.

> | Option&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: Sigh. This is partly why I objected to moving to pure markdown in the first place. It just doesn't handle formatting nearly as well as ReStructuredText.

There must be some other way to avoid breaking lines without risking HTML formatting going awry...
